http://www.dataminingresearch.com/index.php/2010/09/classic3-classic4-datasets/

Classic3 and Classic4 DataSets
By Volkan TUNALI, September 10, 2010 4:53 am

One well known benchmark dataset used in text mining is the Classic collection that can be obtained from ftp://ftp.cs.cornell.edu/pub/smart/. This dataset consists of 4 different document collections: CACM, CISI, CRAN, and MED. These collections can be downloaded as one file per collection. In order to get the individual documents, a processing is needed to extract the title and document body. I have separated all these documents as individual documents and made available for public download. You can freely download the whole collection (1.5MB RAR file).

The composition of the collection is as follows:

    CACM: 3204 documents
    CISI: 1460 documents
    CRAN: 1398 documents
    MED: 1033 documents

This dataset is usually referred to as Classic3 dataset (CISI, CRAN and MED only), and sometimes referred to as Classic4 dataset.

As a further step, I have preprocessed the whole dataset and obtained the document-term matrix in various forms. You can download the matrices and related files here (7.4MB RAR file). The list of the files are explained below:

    docbyterm.mat: Term frequencies only (in Cluto’s MAT file format)
    docbyterm.tfidf.mat: Weighted with TFIDF scheme (in Cluto’s MAT file format)
    docbyterm.tfidf.norm.mat: Weighted with TFIDF scheme and normalized to 1 (in Cluto’s MAT file format)
    docbyterm.txt: Term frequencies only (in Coordinate file format)
    docbyterm.tfidf.txt: Weighted with TFIDF scheme (in Coordinate file format)
    docbyterm.tfidf.norm.txt: Weighted with TFIDF scheme and normalized to 1 (in Coordinate file format)
    documents.txt: List of the document names as they appear in the data matrix
    terms.txt: List of terms that appear in the data matrix
    terms_detailed.txt: A detailed list of terms (ie. term id, term, # of documents the term appears)

As you see, preprocessing results are in two simple and well-known text file formats: Coordinate file and Cluto’s MAT file. In addition, term frequency, TFIDF, and normalized TFIDF weighting schemes are available. Terms are single words; that is, there are no n-grams. Minimum term length is 3. A term appears at least in 3 documents, and a term can appear at most 95% of the documents. Moreover, Porter’s stemming is applied while preprocessing.

If you find these documents and data matrix files useful, please let me know with your comments. Any questions or criticism is also welcome.
